[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> There's such a safety and
a connection I had in nature--
neutralizing and calming
nerves and just resetting,
replenishing, nurturing.
I led my first women's
empowerment program and rock
climbing camp when
I was 22 years old.
I knew many of my friends had
been victimized or assaulted.
And it was always about them.
And I could really
be there for them.
I always knew I was going to
be a therapist since I was 14.
I learned from me that
traditional psychotherapy
had its limits as far as
inspiration and impact.
I founded the
Wellfit Institute out
of my personal and professional
experience of the healing
that can occur through
challenges in nature.
Wellfit is adventure therapy.
Wellfit is the therapeutic
use of the wilderness
or the outdoors.
And I've seen the application
of these adventures
and these challenges as being
so appropriate to everyday life.
>> Jill and I decided
that we would start with
women's leadership and
empowerment groups.
And so now we've been
doing that for three years.
Jill started talking about
the Wellfit Girls Challenge
and what she wanted to do.
And I said, go for it.
And what we found was
that it was really
difficult to get to the teens.
Ellen and Bob Nicolls,
who are the founders
of New Horizons in southwest
Florida, are friends of mine.
>> 12 years ago, my husband
and I founded New Horizons
to really meet the needs of
at-risk children that live
in our community.
>> I called Ellen
and said, hey, Ellen.
We have an empowerment,
leadership,
and fitness programs.
Do you think you can
get some girls for us?
And she said, give me a week.
And within a week, she
had eight girls for us.
>> Does anybody feel they're not
in the right place right now,
want to raise your hand?
No?
There's nowhere
else in the world
were meant to be than
right here, right now.
Raise your hand.
Who's in?
I'm in.
High five, high five.
Let's do this.
Do it.
Yeah?
[LAUGHTER]
Yeah.
All right, we're ready.
This is an opportunity
of a lifetime.
The mission of the
Wellfit Girls Challenge
is to create a healthy,
empowering culture that
inspires your personal growth.
And we're confident if you can
commit to this, if you do--
and I know you will
commit to this--
you will come out transformed.
Does anybody know what
the word holistic means?
Another word for
that is integrated.
So there's many things
happening at once.
So that's what this program is.
It incorporates
personal growth with
interpersonal relationships
and your personal style
of leadership.
So when you come
out of this, you're
going to be ready to
take on new experiences,
and meet new people, and
have healthy relationships,
and feel better about yourself.
And that's the ultimate goal.
The Peaks Foundation
took a similar age group
of girls, just like
you, from Australia
to Africa to climb a
mountain with a group
of local girls in Tanzania.
It was a perfect fit
with what I wanted to do.
The partnership with them makes
it possible for this leadership
program to culminate in
an expedition to Peru.
This five month program
is going to prepare
you to immerse yourself in that
culture and get to know girls
your age who live there.
And we're going to
donate our time,
get to know their
families a little bit,
and explore the
sacred sites and hike
and trek our way too Machu
Picchu, one of the seven
wonders of the world.
So you get to go
have a big adventure,
climb some mountains, and also
do some really good service
work while you're there.
>> I'm Alexis Buhelos.
I'm 14 years old.
I live in Florida.
And I go to Lely High School.
I didn't want to go at first.
I'm not even going to lie.
I don't know other girls.
It's going to be weird.
It's just that I'm going
to be able to go, and help
these girls, and just
spend time, and learn
about their culture,
and just how they live--
is just amazing to me.
Not even that I'm so into
traveling or anything.
It's just there's girls
around the world who
do the same things as I do.
And it's just cool to get a
different perspective of it.
>> We're going to create an
expedition mentality to look
deep within ourselves, to
better ourselves through health,
through nutrition, fitness,
and interpersonal discovery.
But it's also a
commitment to others,
which is going to allow us to
be successful as a team to go
on this expedition to Peru.
We're going to do creative
expression, art, dance, yoga.
We're going to work out and
do some amazing, fun training
stuff with Andrew.
It's challenging.
But you're not
going to get bored.
We're going to be doing
different things every week.
So I can already tell by looking
at each and every one of you
that you're totally pumped
[LAUGHTER] and you're in.
We're going to have
an amazing time.
Congratulations to you.
[APPLAUSE]
I really believe in
sisterhood and girl power.
And that's a big
reason why I've created
these programs, these
transformational programs,
in a group setting.
Because we can do
a lot on our own.
But when we are
witnessed and when
we share our transformation
with other girls
in the circle of equality
and sisterhood, so much more
is possible.
>> The girls that are
participating in this challenge
are girls that live in poverty.
>> They have family issues.
They have illness.
>> My name is Selena Tello.
I'm 18.
I'm almost going to be 19.
I live in Bonita Springs.
Where I come from, is Guatemala.
And my family's kind of
poor and all like that.
And kids my age,
they have to work
instead of going to school.
I'm always in
charge of my house,
because my mom works too.
When I get from school,
I have to clean it.
And then I have to cook
and give my dad his food,
and my brothers, and then
get ready to go work.
Yeah, I'm the older one and
the only girl in the family.
So yeah.
>> Why don't you have everybody
take two steps in and see what
that does.
I think we're good.
>> I'm ready to fall.
>> We're ready.
>> When you're born, your skull
is supposed to float around
in two pieces so
your brain can grow.
And mine was fused together.
So my brain was trying
to grow, but my skull
was kind of holding it back.
So I had to have surgery.
And they cut open
a couple spots.
And they kind of
pulled it apart.
And I had to wear a
helmet for a year or so.
>> Oh, this is so cool.
>> Let her have her
experience, you guys.
>> During the surgery
when I was really young,
I flatlined for six
or seven minutes.
It's strange and powerful.
It's-- I think about it a lot.
>> My name's Evelyn Pacheco.
I am 17 years old.
I go to Estero High School.
My mom, I look up to her,
because she's a strong woman.
She cleans.
She works at a restaurant
and barefoot beach.
When I told her about the
trip, she said, if you want to,
just go for it.
You can do anything.
She told me, you think
you can climb that?
I'm like, of course I can.
I'm ready for anything.
She's my best friend.
I'm her best friend.
>> OK.
[APPLAUSE]
>> We're going to create a
ritual that we're going to do
at the end of every group.
We're going to tie a ribbon on.
And you're going to affirm
something about yourself.
Maybe it's something you
learned that day or something
you feel proud of that day.
But you're going to
affirm it by saying, I am.
And then we embody that.
I am proud.
And everybody in the group is
going to say, yes, you are.
Alexis.
>> I am excited.
>> Yes, you are.
>> Riley.
>> I am ready.
>> Yes, you are.
>> I am happy.
>> I am confident.
>> Yes, you are.
>> Well, I'm Riley Zuccarello.
And I go to Gulf
Coast High School.
I'm a sophomore this year.
And I turned 16 in July.
I'm kind of like one
from a tough love family.
I can kind of handle myself.
And I know how to take
jabs once in a while.
Being part of the model
United Nations team,
we debate a lot about
not only key issues,
but key issues in our world and
how we can solve those issues.
Going to Peru is also something
that's been one of my dreams.
Because I'm really focused
on international relations
and helping those
in need and stuff.
But to meet the girls there
and just spend time with them,
and get to know how their way of
living is different from ours,
I think that's going
to be really cool.
>> One day, a group of girls
came to Arusha all the way from
Australia.
And they asked me and some of my
classmates to climb with them,
to climb to the very
top of Mount Meru.
We joined together in the
great takes on the challenge.
This is our story.
[NON-ENGLISH SINGING]
>> I'm not the kind of
person who talks a lot.
I prefer to be by myself
and just alone like that.
Because I have never
done things like this.
I want to travel
to other countries.
But I don't have the
opportunity to do it.
Yeah, I actually am really
grateful for this opportunity.
And it could be a challenge
for everybody else.
And they could do
stuff that they never
thought they could done.
>> This whole experience is an
opportunity for them to move
so far beyond
their comfort zone.
They have to buy
into this challenge.
>> It was 11 years ago.
Captain Bob and Miss Ellen would
drive around and pick everyone
up in their trucks.
And back then, it was
just the Superkids church,
so we would only go on Sundays.
And my sophomore year,
I started working
with the middle schoolers.
And now I tutor them from
4:00 to 6:00 after school.
I have a four year scholarship
to go to any university.
In the fall, I plan
to enroll at FGCU
and get into the
nursing program.
>> My sister Maria's the
first person to go to college
in our family.
She's really smart.
And the kids are excited to
work with her at New Horizons.
I heard about the
Wellfit program
and going to Peru
through Miss Ellen.
The thing that makes me nervous
about the trip is the asthma.
I'm not sure if it'll act up
over there, because everybody
keeps asking me, what
about your asthma?
Are you sure you can go?
And it kind of brings me down.
It's a challenge that
I wanted to face.
Because I really
want to go on this.
And just got to be positive.
>> I'm actually very excited.
Because it's my first
time out of the country.
And I'm kind of
nervous about it also.
Because I'm not
going with anybody.
I'm used to going with
people who I know.
And I'm not going with
family or anything.
So it's kind of scary
at the same time.
>> I've known Guadalupe since
we were about five years old.
We went to preschool together.
And ever since then, we've
just always been close.
And we've grown up.
And we've gone
through the flood.
The mobile home park that
we lived in got flooded.
It was after Tropical Storm Fay.
>> In my parents' bedroom,
it was all flooded.
And we woke up with this alarm.
>> My parents came into my
room telling us to get all
our stuff, to get as
much as we could get out.
We lost family albums.
We lost a lot of clothes.
We had to leave all
our schoolbooks.
>> My mom heard about
the Estelle Rec Center,
which was a shelter for the
families who were affected.
And we ended up
living at the shelter
for two to three months.
>> And we spent maybe 2 and
1/2 months in Germain Arena
sleeping on cots, just with
maybe 100 other people that
lived in the camp too.
By the end of those
two months, we
found out that most of the
homes were not up to regulation
anymore.
They were all destroyed.
And there was mold everywhere.
So we had to move out.
Our dog actually
got lost there too.
We had to leave him behind.
>> He was running
around the whole time.
And he would hide underneath
the trailer with all the water.
>> And Naples news
ran a story on us.
And they found him.
And we got him back after that.
>> In sixth grade,
it was a challenge.
Because my parents were
not fluent in English
and couldn't help
me with homework.
I had really bad grades--
D's, C's.
I started New Horizons
when I was in eighth grade.
And since then, I've
been having A's and B's.
The scholarship program, I got
it from Take Stock in Children
by the help of Miss Ellen.
Without her, I couldn't
have gotten it.
Because it's a four
year paid scholarship.
So it's a big deal.
>> You're not all going
to be on the same page.
It's not all going to
be perfect right away.
But you can't talk.
And we have to do walking
lunges down to the curb.
My name is Andrew Miranti.
And I'm the head strength
and conditioning coach here
at Total Athletic Performance
in Naples, Florida.
This is called the
Wellfit Girls Challenge.
And we don't want to
lose sight that it
is going to be a challenge.
You may have to help
the person next to you.
I'd like to think that
it's going to be easy.
But the fact is,
it's not going to be.
You can't climb
smooth mountains.
>> Like, who doesn't
want to get in shape?
But it's like, a professional
boy trainer person
who just works out--
and be like, OK, we're
doing this for us.
>> We have the girls
once a week for an hour.
And we just get them ready
both mentally and physically
for the challenges they're
going to have up ahead in Peru.
>> I really respond
to challenges well,
because everybody needs a
little bit of competitiveness--
>> Perfect, ladies.
Now switch.
>> What?
>> Switch.
>> --to just do above and beyond
and just push that extra mile.
>> Remember, your
teammate up here--
Some the physical training
that we're doing with them
is just primarily
bodyweight-- squats, push-ups,
a lot of core work, a
lot of endurance work,
just because I know
that they're going
to be on this eight day hike.
And we want to make
sure that they're
in the best shape possible.
So they're going to
need to truly build
a team if they expect to finish,
and all of them to finish.
Who wants to be successful?
Yes?
>> Me.
>> OK.
What if all a sudden you got
the phone call that said,
you're no longer part of
this great opportunity.
We're going to take that
privilege away from you.
Every single day when an
opportunity is given to you,
when something's in
front of you, take it.
Because one day, it's
not going to be there.
>> You're creating a pathway
for other girls to do something
like this.
You are the example.
You're setting that.
How empowering?
Close your eyes, Alexis.
>> I have ADHD.
I like to be in control a lot.
So I guess I kind
of yell and stuff.
But it's all in trying to just
be the better person, I guess.
>> I've had numerous
conversations with Alexis
and with her mom saying, I
don't feel comfortable with
your participation.
>> I was diagnosed with
anxiety and depression.
And seeing that depression
turned into self-harm.
You have to make sure that
this isn't who you are.
You aren't the person who
wants to hurt themselves.
You're the person who wants
to be happy, and love life,
and just do all the things
that the seven-year-old wanted
to do in you.
You have to say, I can't
do this to myself anymore.
>> The more we feel empowered,
the more we empower others.
And that's what
this is all about.
>> We want to provide kids with
a new horizon in their lives,
to lift them out of the
poverty that surrounds them,
and the crime, and the gang
and drug activity that is all
around them, day to day.
>> Right face.
Forward march.
>> My mom, she came to the
United States pregnant with me.
They came with nothing.
So then she had to work while
she was still pregnant with me.
My last quarter grades, I
came up with all straight A's.
>> Forward halt.
>> And I was like really excited
to tell my mom about that.
Because I wanted
to show her that
I want to take her out of the
place where she's at right now.
I want to make her life better
than what it was before.
I don't want her to
struggle no more.
[NON-ENGLISH SINGING]
>> The ancient Sanskrit
word yoga means to unite.
We practice yoga to integrate
mind, body, and spirit.
Through the physical effort
and empowerment of yoga,
we create new possibilities
for ourselves.
We become more present to
and accepting of our lives
for what they are and
what they are not.
Connection with self and others
is the ultimate goal of yoga.
Because this was leadership
and empowerment based,
I came on pretty strong in
what the behavioral commitments
were.
>> One of our commitments
was to show up on time and be
prepared.
And that one really
stuck out to me.
Because I chose Wellfit
over my band practices.
>> What I've seen with
these girls is they've taken
ownership of these behavioral
commitments as we've progressed
through the program.
So we come in.
We want to come into our space--
coming into our
space and actually
being here for each other.
The important goal
here is for the girls
to practice generous listening.
A big part of being
with and for each other
is generous listening.
>> The last thing I cried
about was about my brother.
Because a while back
ago, he got arrested.
And we were afraid that he
was going to get deported.
So yeah.
And then he's my only male
role model I have in my life.
>> This is Kendall.
If she could be any animal,
she would be a dragon.
And she could
breathe fire on the
[LAUGHTER]
>> I could breathe fire on
people that I didn't like.
[LAUGHTER]
>> Ellen came to me and said,
I have concerns about Eloisa.
And I don't think her attitude
is where it needs to be.
I have seen Eloisa
from the beginning
a demure, behind-the-scenes,
hiding girl.
>> There's two years that
I had gone without talking
to my sisters or my
parents that much.
Because there's this family
situation that had happened.
And they took the other
family member's side.
So I lost trust in
them, because they
were more worried about
that person instead of me.
>> I really took note of
that after Ellen said.
And I've kind of given
her more attention
and put her on the
hook, basically.
Put her on the hook.
>> Who's your best friend?
And name a few
things about them.
>> There's Evelyn
and my two sisters.
They've been through
a lot with me.
>> They've just been there?
>> Yeah.
>> Eloisa has been forced
to speak with other people,
look at other people in the eye,
communicate, share of herself.
And that space
could have allowed
Maria to have a renewed
sense of compassion,
empathy, maybe even
respect for Eloisa
that she's emerging
as her own person
and not so reliant on her.
That's what I've seen.
>> I'm enlightened by everyone.
>> I am grateful.
>> I'm brave.
>> Yes, you are.
>> The girls don't like
running, most of them.
Andrew came up to me, our
fitness guru, and he said,
they're not ready.
This isn't going to happen.
What do we do?
He was very concerned.
And that day we were running.
And I said, run them again.
I mean, they were regularly
walking during a half a mile
run.
And then at the end
of a very big workout,
he said, hey, we've got
a special guest today.
And they're like, oh, who?
And he said, your
special guest is reality.
Get out and run another mile.
My inspiring friends,
Lulu and Evelyn,
hosted our final group session.
>> We're going to start
painting here today.
Then it's dry.
And then we will give
this to you before you go.
Exercise your gifts, your
powers, your love for humanity.
Just go and paint
whatever you want.
>> Zumba?
Zumba!
>> Step back.
>> I have no rhythm.
>> Four, three, two, and one.
That's it.
Hold it.
Now four.
That's it.
Ready?
Give me some shoulders.
That's it.
Move it back!
[CHEERING]
>> I am excited.
>> Yes, you are.
>> I am proud.
>> I am so blessed.
>> Grateful.
>> Curious.
>> Empowered.
>> Happy.
>> I'm full of love.
>> Awesome.
[CHEERING]
>> I had a biopsy done.
And it came back positive.
And I didn't know what that
would mean for me, what
it would mean for the program.
>> Debby has been an
incredible partner.
This cancer diagnosis, of
course, was devastating.
I immediately said to her,
take care of yourself.
Your health comes first.
And I support you in
any decision you make.
>> This diagnosis is certainly
making me but Debby first.
And so now it's, Debby's going.
And I'm also going for
Jill and the girls.
>> Listen up.
Listen up, everybody.
Once you get your bag, I want
you to know what's in it.
>> With the trip just days
away, the girls were given
their expedition
bags and hiking gear.
All the elements of the
pre-planning expedition
phase, what I wanted to see
has really been accomplished.
And I have to say,
in all honesty,
when I accepted 11 girls, I
really only expected eight.
Not one of them dropped out.
And I was absolutely certain
we were going to lose three.
>> I've been through a lot
of things with this group.
I've had to learn
to come together.
And it's helped me a lot.
And I want to show people,
you're not always alone.
>> If you fear, you bring
the negative things in you.
So I don't think like that.
>> Six of them have
never been on a plane.
>> I would like to see
myself a more confident self.
I want to benefit from it, just
to know that the girls in Peru
will benefit from it.
>> Amazing how people live
right next to Machu Picchu
and don't even ever
get to climb it.
I can't imagine that.
>> These girls, they have had
enough adversity in their life
that they can face
and handle a lot.
We've prepared them that this
is going to be uncomfortable,
and to get comfortable
with being uncomfortable.
This phase of the
journey away from home
initiates the next
level of the challenge.
Leaving their comforts and
the world they know behind,
the girls will never
be the same as they
travel to a new place
within themselves.
>> Right?
>> Jane and Selvy founded Peru's
Challenge to benefit the local
community.
They have been working
with the girls who
will join us to carefully
select the hardest
working and most prepared
girls for this expedition.
They will be our guides
while we're here.
Being in partnership
allows us to do much more
that we could do on our own.
>> OK, girls.
I hope you've had a
nice lunch and it makes
you feel a little bit better.
>> Great, thank you.
>> Number one thing in regards
to living at attitude is water.
We should be trying
to drink around
two liters of water a day.
The other thing is to try
and drink as much coca tea
as you can.
Three cups of day would
be probably a good idea,
because the coca leaves
from the mountains--
tradition from here--
are also really good for
dealing with the altitude.
So just keep drinking.
>> When I first got to
Peru, I was feeling--
I got headaches.
I couldn't eat.
I feel like throwing up.
>> I know you may not feel
100% just getting to altitude.
But it's going to be
over before you know it.
So let's make the
most of every moment.
Thanks.
[APPLAUSE]
>> Arriving here
from the airport,
I just think Lupita started
crying, just looking at people.
I think just because
we think we're so--
>> Less fortunate.
>> Yeah, like we have nothing.
And then you see them.
And they really
have nothing here.
We kind of feel
selfish and spoiled.
I don't know.
That was the hardest
part, I think.
>> For both of us, yeah.
>> Yeah.
>> I have been a wellness
coach with the girls.
I'm helping them
to begin to start
learning about
self-care-- eating
well, hydrating themselves,
just generally thinking
about themselves and
taking care of themselves.
Altitude sickness
can affect anybody,
even if you're in
really good shape,
and eat really well,
and stay hydrated.
But experience is
the best teacher.
>> We love everybody who
brought us to this place.
It touched me so much to see and
meet so many of your parents,
taking this huge risk of
their own feeling of comfort
to let you out into this world.
Because they know there's
something bigger for you
to learn, and explore, and grow.
So there's a whole world of home
that's here with you right now.
But this is your chance
to fully take this in.
Knowing that whatever you're
feeling, there's no right.
There's no wrong.
There just is a sense of
being, and total exploration,
and curiosity, and adventure.
And that's why we're here.
[LAUGHTER]
>> Good morning and welcome.
This is the Plaza
de Armas of Cusco.
This was one of the
main principal plazas
for ceremonials and rituals.
When the Spanish came here, they
decided to build a cathedral.
On top of one of the
principal temple,
the original name
of the cathedral
is the Iglesia a
Virgin Ascension.
What you see is [NON-ENGLISH].
He is the king that decides to
build Inca temples, palaces,
including Machu Picchu.
>> Ellen really started to
struggle with the altitude.
It was becoming clear
that she might not
be able to join us on the
trek, which would take us
to even higher altitudes.
The market was a true
feast for the senses.
It was an opportunity to get to
know the culture by the sounds,
the smells, the tastes.
>> This is a granadilla.
You have to open a
little at the top.
>> That was awesome.
>> This afternoon, we are
going to visit the community
on the school of [NON-ENGLISH],,
one of the communities that
we've been working for
the last five years.
>> Peru's Challenge does amazing
work, providing irrigation,
tools, greenhouses, and
education to the Purmamarca
community.
They now see a hope for a
future of sustainability
and independence.
Farmers of Purmamarca
produce crops year
round and sell their flowers
in the local markets.
The walk through the
village to the school
was a good conditioning
hike for us.
The anticipation of
meeting the girls who
would be joining
them on the trek
gave them the strength
to keep on going.
>> The kids and the school
are very affectionate.
Try to share that
moment with them.
[LAUGHTER]
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> It was such an amazing
experience just having all
these little kids just running
around and just hugging you.
[NON-ENGLISH SINGING]
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> Our girls were overwhelmed
by the sheer gratitude
and the warmth of their
new friends from Peru.
You could really see
a new sense of pride
in them and a growing
self-confidence.
>> It was really empowering
to me to feel so important
to them.
I couldn't even believe how
happy they were over it.
It's like really
motivating and inspiring.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> I can make such a big
difference in people's lives.
>> Helping the kids--
literally, that was the
best part of my day.
And they just don't
really have as much.
And just how happy
they are is amazing.
>> Many of our girls struggled
through the night with
headaches, lack of sleep,
and some getting very sick.
>> Good morning.
Today, we are going
to have prepared
fruit salads for 100 kids.
Ready for action?
>> Yes.
>> OK.
So we're going to show you
how to prepare some bread
for the whole school.
But the first thing
that we're going to do,
we're going to mix it up.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> Azucar means sugar.
>> Azucar means sugar?
>> Make sure you
break down the--
>> Little chunks in it.
>> Yeah, the chunks in there.
>> We're making bread.
>> So tired.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> OK, so I think
that's the one.
>> The one that's big?
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah, that one's a mom.
>> Girls, we're going to
do a lesson of hygiene.
We're going to
give the kids a bit
of liquid soap in the hands.
And then after that, you're
going to put them the creme.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> Hello, everyone.
We're going to be doing yoga.
And you guys are
going to like it.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> Child's pose.
Downward Dog.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> Find a partner.
Dancer Pose.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> Gracias, amiga!
>> I remember when I was little,
I felt really uncomfortable
giving hugs and everything.
Because I never was
surrounded by that.
They're so friendly to us.
I'm still working on it.
>> Before we're going
to Sacsayhuaman,
we are going to cross a tunnel.
Cusco of these area is full
of underground tunnels.
The Incas used these
tunnels to communicate,
for example, from here all
the way to the Plaza de Armas
to take important
things to the Inca king.
>> We're good.
>> Temples around here
were very important.
One of the most important
one is Sacsayhuaman.
>> The natural rock slides
at the ruins were a pleasant
and welcome surprise.
The girls let loose and forgot
about their altitude sickness,
their fears, and the
challenges that lie ahead.
>> Ow.
[SHOUTING]
>> Our time at Sacsayhuaman
has been a perfect retreat from
the fast paced journey
in Peru so far.
The girls reflected on
just how far they had come.
>> A few weeks ago we
actually painted this.
And now we want you
guys to add to that
and add to the layers
of our community.
And we want to all
become one big community
and express that on our canvas.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
[LAUGHTER]
>> All right, girls.
[CHATTER]
>> The community service project
was an eye-opening experience
for our girls.
They were confronted
by the poverty
and realized they didn't
have it so bad at home.
They were excited to
be a part of something
bigger than themselves,
which gave them
a new sense of gratitude.
[BEEPING]
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> Every time I had it,
I would drink water,
probably because it
wouldn't go away.
>> Even if you had tried to
eat, you think you wouldn't have
been able to?
>> Uh-uh.
I feel like I would
just throw it up.
>> Yeah.
>> Dear Lord, we just wanted to
ask that you keep us all safe
tomorrow on our hiking, that
we all make it to the top.
And please take care of
Miss Ellen and Daisy,
who are staying here.
You know the reasons why.
You know it's the best for them.
>> And that nobody gets sick.
And they have their experience
of climbing the first mountain.
>> I'm so thankful for what
you've given to me and to all
of us, and how you keep us safe.
And I hope you keep doing
that for the rest of our trip
and the rest of our lives.
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> For many of our
Peruvian girls,
it was the first
time riding in cars,
especially for any
length of time.
Most of them suffered
from motion sickness
on the way up to
the sacred valley.
We had a slow ride there,
stopping to take care of them
along the way.
We will climb to more
than 15,000 feet higher
than any of the girls
have ever been and higher
than any peak in the US.
>> We founded the Peaks
Foundation with the intention
of organizing mountain-based
expeditions for women and girls
to raise funds for
female-focused initiatives
in local mountain-based
communities.
We believe mountains are a
unique tool for empowerment.
They're the perfect
metaphor to life.
You need to work hard.
You need to work together.
You need to communicate.
You need to be
present in the moment.
And you need to make
quick decisions.
We were very passionate about
helping local communities--
most importantly,
the women and girls
who live in these communities.
Not only that, you're
not always guaranteed
to reach the summit, which is
a very important life lesson.
>> Arriving at the trailhead,
the girls are confronted with
fear and apprehension.
Many of them have been suffering
with headaches, insomnia,
loss of appetite,
and vomiting in Cusco
over the past several days.
They soon realized the trail
only ascends from here.
None of them have ever
hiked, let alone at altitude,
carrying backpacks.
>> My name is Chalo.
I've been organizing
and leading this treks
through the Andes for 40 years,
especially for kids, girls.
You're coming here and you have
to face this big challenge,
which is doable.
I always tell them it's doable.
But it's a huge
challenge for them,
coming out of
their comfort zone.
So at the beginning,
they're quite afraid.
And going through all this,
they start to grow and realize
all what they can learn.
My role here is
being the backup.
They have to do
everything by themselves.
And I have to be sure that
the food, the camping,
and everything is there.
And along the trek, during the
day, I have to shore them up.
That's my main role.
It's kind of
challenging to me, too.
But I know how is the end.
So that's why I'm always
optimistic with them,
because I know they're
going to do it.
If they need a little bit
of help, we supply the help.
>> Me and Maria, we thought
that it was going to be easy.
So we were up front
and at a fast pace.
And then we didn't
realize it would
get hotter and everything.
Then we'd be running
out of water.
Then we started falling behind.
>> Within an hour, a few of
the girls couldn't even carry
their day packs.
The adults took turns
carrying two packs
to lighten their load.
[CHATTER]
>> We stop.
And they keep going.
>> OK.
>> Going around
on the other side.
>> So what's going on?
Have you felt this way before,
since you've been here?
>> No.
>> So this is a new feeling.
So where do you feel it most?
Like you're going to throw up?
>> I feel like there's
something pushing into my head.
And I'm--
>> Yep, that could be attitude.
>> And my stomach--
I feel like I'm
going to throw up.
It hurts.
>> OK.
Do you think you could throw up?
It might make you feel better.
>> No, I don't think
I can throw up.
>> So you feel like you
have to, but you can't.
Got it.
OK.
So Chalo, we're
going to walk slow.
So Gabby wants to
walk slow with Alexis.
Do you think you could
walk much slower?
You think you can actually walk?
I'm going to leave you
this water for her.
It's altitude.
It's a lot.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> It's hot.
You're not used to it.
You're OK.
Nothing is wrong with you.
That's what I want you to
know more than anything, OK.
>> We'll breathe heavy together.
>> Nothing's wrong with you.
Totally normal, OK.
The trekking was slow.
We had to stop much more
than we anticipated.
The horse became a necessity
to move some of the girls
further along the trail.
The girls were
hungry and exhausted
by the time everyone straggled
into this late lunch stop.
[CHEERING]
>> Good job, Debby.
Awesome, Alexis.
Come get your warmies on.
And come get some
food, girlfriend.
>> Do you want some?
>> So the girl whose
backpack you have,
she needs something out of it.
Thank you for carrying it.
>> Look at me.
You can do this.
Do you believe it?
>> I feel so bad.
>> Don't feel bad.
We're almost finished.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> How's it going, girls?
>> Good.
>> What do you
think about lunch?
How is it?
>> It was good.
>> What'd you have?
>> Chicken.
>> Chicken, rice.
>> And little bananas!
[LAUGHTER]
>> I was getting dizzy and
headaches and stomach aches.
But it was more mentally.
So it was mind over matter.
Everyone helped me
and encouraged me.
So that was great.
I'm nervous, but I
know I'll do good.
>> Alexis, I'm going to keep
you in eye view at all times.
>> OK.
>> We're climbing
up the mountain.
And I'm starting to feel dizzy.
>> Eloisa, what's
going on, girlfriend?
>> My chest is
compressed inside.
>> How do you feel?
>> I can't breathe.
>> OK, breathe.
>> I'm not really sure if she
is going to be able to make it.
It's just going to get
harder and harder for her
to breathe up there.
>> Eloisa has experienced
trauma and family betrayal.
I can relate to being violated
by someone I trusted as well.
I want to instill in her that,
even though bad things happen
in life, we get to make the
choice to be a warrior, to rise
above and beyond mere survival.
I was 15.
If this could happen in
the home of my best friend,
and he could do this to
me, what can anybody do?
And I didn't want
people to know,
or people-- what they
would think about me.
So I didn't tell anybody.
And I really suffered
with it alone.
And I remember
reading statistics
that one in four girls will be
raped by the time they're 18.
And I remember reading
that, and a sign when
I-- my first week of college
thinking, I hope that's not me.
I was like, wait, that is me.
My hope for Eloisa is that she
becomes bolder and stronger
by taking on more
challenges like this
and that she learns
to trust herself.
>> You can do it.
>> Look, and the
horse is really nice.
>> You can do it.
Listen to Angel.
You can do it.
>> The horse is nice.
>> I kind of wanted
her to maybe go back.
At the same time, I was hoping
that she would keep going
and that she would be OK.
>> It hurts because we're
not all together in a group,
because they're
separated from us,
not feeling well.
But--
>> And then swing your leg over.
>> There's nothing we can do but
support them and let them calm
down a bit.
>> How are you guys
doing back there?
>> I just--
>> Your heart's pounding.
It's going to be flat
for a little while.
Vamanos.
>> Chico going to help, OK?
>> I'm right behind you.
I'm not going to let you fall.
>> No worry.
>> I stayed back with Alexis,
because she was having a lot
of troubles.
>> Angelica is short of
breath and struggling as well.
>> The fact that I see double
vision probably isn't a good
sign.
>> Really?
It's OK.
Take a sip.
Drink some more water.
It's fine.
We can move behind
this other group.
>> Come on, girls.
>> Ready?
[CHATTER]
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> I'm going to make you
feel better right now.
>> Getting down
is better than up.
>> I know.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
[LAUGHTER]
>> I told her we were close.
[CHEERING]
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> You have to tell
us the whole time.
>> I felt like I was
going to die up there.
>> Come on, Alexis.
>> The horse was
going like this.
I was like, uh-uh.
>> Yeah, it's hard.
I had to control my breathing.
When it gets cold, I
start to breathe less.
>> There was a great sense
of relief just stepping
to the edge of camp.
>> You made it.
>> I made it.
>> There was a whole big
feeling of triumph and pride.
>> I'm like an 11
out of 10 right now.
[CHATTER]
>> To Alexis!
>> Tomorrow, I'm probably most
nervous about the altitude.
And if I get sick
again and dizzy.
>> Even though we were
not at the same pace,
we still made it together.
That's meaningful, because it's
like, no one's left behind.
[CHEERING]
>> Awesome.
I am so proud--
>> Me too!
>> --of all of you.
We started as individuals,
as two separate groups.
And after our first day,
we're united as one.
>> Group hug.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> Bring it in.
[CHEERING]
>> Louisa wasn't taking
good care of herself.
She was very quiet at dinner
and did not eat or drink water.
Later in the evening,
she developed
a case of altitude sickness.
We had to give her oxygen,
which seemed to help.
[LAUGHTER]
>> It's more complicated and
a bit more challenging than I
really thought, with the
dynamics of the different
groups--
coming together, interacting--
>> Morning.
You want sugar?
>> And kind of keeping the
morale up with the cold,
the altitude, and some illness.
It's hard for them.
I mean, they're still
living at home being
taken care of by their parents.
So to be in a completely
new environment
having to practice self-care in
such a new and challenging way,
it's difficult. Yet, they
mostly slept through the night,
which was impressive.
Deep squat here.
We're going to warm up our legs.
They're practicing a
lot of the principles
that we've trained
for for five months.
Stay with it, teamwork,
looking after each other,
not giving up.
Girls, reach, reach, reach,
reach, reach for the summit.
And there's a lot of
fear, a lot of fear,
like it's going to be like
this for the next three days.
Or is it going to get better?
Am I going to get better?
So we're really
addressing real issues.
And some of them are feeling
already extremely empowered
just with what
they've done so far.
So it's been amazing.
I'm happy.
Where are you on a
scale of 1 to 10?
>> 10.
>> 10?
And you, Selena?
>> 10.
>> You're leading the
group again today.
You're rocking it.
I'm so proud of you.
Hello.
[MUSIC - KENK, "I BELIEVE IN
YOU"] Always there for me when
I need you.
And when I don't,
you never fall.
And I just wanted to say
thank you for giving me
your guiding star.
I believe in you.
>> Eloisa was struggling a
lot trekking up at first.
I looked up at one point,
and she was up ahead of me.
She was leading the pack.
Yeah, definitely
very proud of her.
>> Oh yes!
I believe in you.
Yes, I do.
>> There were times when I
thought that it was going to be
too hard.
Every time I wanted to give
up, I kept on telling myself,
wow, you want to join the army,
and you can't even do this?
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> I started doubting myself.
I started getting
dizzy and nauseous.
And I was at the back.
Angel offered me a
horse, but I said no,
because I wanted
to get to the top.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> I don't mind at all.
The weight isn't bothering
me, but I can't--
>> It would be amazing if
food was waiting for us.
[LAUGHTER]
>> It's more like
my chest hurts.
>> What?
>> Does your chest hurt?
>> Yeah, it's like--
and my head hurts too.
But I'll be fine.
>> It's altitude.
>> I hate altitude.
>> Whenever I felt really bad, I
could just kind of look around.
And everything was
so beautiful that it
was kind of like I can just
get through this for that.
I'm really scared, because
I'm scared that I'm
going to stop breathing.
>> Kendall was
hyperventilating and stumbling.
Send a message to your
body, it's OK to relax.
I'm going to be OK.
She seemed to be hallucinating
and could barely breathe.
Slower.
Walk slower, honey.
Walk slower.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> Being able to travel to a
new country for the first time
and see snow there--
we've never seen snow before.
[LAUGHTER]
We touched it
without our gloves.
So our hands were
freezing in the beginning.
>> It was just
something amazing,
especially to experience with
one of your close friends.
And you're both seeing this
at the same time together.
It was just really nice.
>> The Peruvian girls had
a great deal of endurance
and were an inspiration
to the Florida girls.
Just 600 feet below our summit,
and Angelica continues to fade.
She was treated with
local herbs to wake her
up and help her acclimatize.
But we really need to get
her up and over the summit as
soon as possible.
Guadalupe legs were
cramping badly,
making each step painful.
Even Maria was worried
about the pain in her knees.
>> Physically, I just felt like
my body was ready to give up
on me.
>> They experienced firsthand
the lesson Andrew had taught
them about the importance of
being comfortable with being
uncomfortable.
We were spread out
up and down the trail
and moving too slowly.
The summit and a long trek
were still ahead of us.
We had to keep moving.
>> We don't have
more long breaks,
just to stop to catch a breath.
>> I don't remember them
putting me on the horse,
but I do remember
being on the horse.
>> Angelica, hold tight.
>> You can do it.
>> I know mentally I can do it.
I wanted to do it.
I was ready to reach the top.
And I saw everyone above me.
But my knees were
just really bad.
They were ready to give out.
>> Tenacity and perseverance
were now becoming a part
of their character.
>> Let's get down.
OK?
OK.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
[CHEERING]
>> I was so full of
joy and everything.
I could finally tell my mom
that I climbed a mountain,
and how proud she would be if
I did accomplish everything.
>> Woo hoo!
>> To be up on the top and being
able to share that with Jill
and everybody else
who was up there--
I felt like I accomplished
something really, really big.
>> Made it to the top.
>> Definitely going up was
one of the hardest parts
of the trip.
Everybody kind of
getting sick and not
feeling well when almost at
the summit kind of messes
my mind a little bit.
>> Reaching the summit, I think,
was probably the best moment
of my life.
>> I felt so proud to see my
friend and co-leader persevere
through the hard climb
up to the summit.
>> Reaching the top,
it was kind of like--
I did this.
And now I know I can do anything
else that life brings to me.
>> We cannot reach
one goal and be done.
We reach a summit, and
we exercise our strength
for the next one.
>> Everyone felt a little
stronger after we reached
the summit, and we
started going downhill.
>> Me, Evelyn, and Lupita
were making these hearts
in the snow.
We saw Jill, and we all decided
to give the snow heart to her.
>> Yay!
I love it.
>> It was just a way to show
her that we do love her.
And she does me
just as much to us
as anyone who has been
in our life forever.
Because she made
this possible for us.
[SHOUTING]
>> No, you're going to start
hitting the gym with me.
>> I told Alexis before the trip
that I had her back no matter
what.
And I wanted to make sure that
I carried out that promise.
And so I made it my goal
to kind of stay with her
and make sure that
I was her support
system, because she
really needed me
throughout the whole way.
>> You could try
and enjoy yourself.
It's not so miserable.
>> I'm trying to enjoy myself.
>> Today was really one of
those days where it's like, OK,
come on.
I'm not going to stop for you.
But I'm going to
be here with you.
And I'm going to help
you along the way.
And I think that was a
really big thing for her.
I guess that it gave her a
gift with more self-confidence.
But it also gave me a gift,
just helping her and realizing
that I was that
important to someone
and that she wanted me
there more than anyone else.
It made me want to finish more.
>> We were bonded by
hardship and adversity.
But we're feeling so good about
what we had accomplished today.
This beautiful valley
was an incredible reward
after all of our hard work.
We had taken too long
to make the summit.
Separated along the trail,
it was well past sunset
before we all found
our way into camp.
I was concerned for the girls,
and making camp in the dark
was difficult.
We woke up to a colorful
display of the cultures'
handmade crafts and
the local Quechuans
in traditional clothing.
>> When I'm 70, and then
having to do all this.
>> Oh my gosh.
[LAUGHTER]
>> So now we're going to say
thank you to the crew who has
been supporting and making
this trip easier for us.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
[APPLAUSE]
>> The girls that came
down from North America,
every week we
create an intention.
And we tie the ribbon on.
I honor each and
every one of you.
And this is an opportunity for
you to share with this circle
how you feel right
now in this moment.
>> I am grateful.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> I am proud.
>> Get ready.
>> I am empowered.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Please tell me, tell
me, I need to know.
Well, I'm guessing there's lots,
so please go nice and slow.
And don't hurry.
We got a little time to spare.
We might be breathing hard, but
we're not running out of air.
>> It was really amazing
that we had come so far,
to be on the trail and seeing
them more joyous, uplifted,
spirited, and strong.
And for me, it
was an opportunity
to feel an immense sense of
pride and accomplishment.
I'm not worried, but
not to say I don't care.
I might be breathing hard, but
I'm not running out of air.
And I don't want to
ever let you down, no.
But I can't keep my feet
down on the ground, yeah.
On the ground.
Please tell me, tell
me what I need to hear.
Well, there's static in
the air, but your message
is loud and clear, yeah.
Just keep talking.
It doesn't matter
if they're unaware.
>> Oh, I cannot see the road!
We might be breathing hard, but
we're not running out of air.
>> As the day wound down,
we had the chance to rest,
some time to reflect on
this beautiful ride through
the Peruvian landscape.
Then we had to say goodbye to
Chalo, our friend and guide.
His journey with the
girls had come to an end.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> Thank you.
[APPLAUSE]
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> Thank you, Chalo!
>> Arriving at
the train station,
we were reunited
with Ellen and Daisy.
They had finally
acclimated to the altitude.
>> Thank you.
>> The next morning, we would
finally arrive at Machu Picchu
and make our final
climb to Guyana Picchu.
>> When we were climbing
that mountain, it was there.
[CHATTER]
>> Wow.
>> I feel like when you
see pictures of this--
>> Yeah, they like--
>> --it wouldn't be as close.
>> Riley, look.
>> Nobody know until our days
the real name of Machu Picchu.
That name was put by Mr.
Hiram Bingham, who discovered
this Machu Picchu in 1811.
He found this place by accident.
He was looking for another
city, the last capital
of [NON-ENGLISH],, one
of the last government.
It's called Vilcabamba.
Machu Picchu means only "old
mountain" or "big mountain."
But that's it.
You see, this is Machu Picchu
mountain, the big mountain.
All the cities are
below the mountain.
How many people living in
Machu Picchu in their time,
probably no more than
800 and no less than 500.
>> The classic peak in the
background we all see in any
photo of Machu Picchu
is Huayna Picchu.
The girls didn't
know that climbing it
would be their final
summit on this journey.
>> Never thought we would
actually climb Huayna Picchu.
>> People have
died on this trail,
but the girls are ready to
face their final challenge.
>> This feels awesome.
We're not halfway?
>> No.
[LAUGHTER]
>> You just didn't know
what to expect while
you're on the trail.
Then you see what there
is in front of you.
>> They couldn't have done this
without the confidence they
cultivated on the trek.
Every step moved them
closer to the goal
of getting to the
summit, of reaching
a higher concept of themselves.
>> Woo!
Woo!
[CHATTER]
>> Guys, be careful!
I feel like a baby,
crawling for the first time.
>> The summit was just above us.
It was a pile of massive
boulders and narrow passages.
The summit was exposed and
exhilarating at the same time.
Hand over hand, step
after step, our girls
faced fear, overcame vertigo,
and pushed every last bit
of doubt that they could handle
this trail from their minds.
The summit was in
their reach now.
We aren't born warriors.
We grow into warriors
by taking on challenge
after challenge in our lives.
Our girls are warriors.
>> Watching all the other
girls come up, I mean,
I just felt really
proud of them.
And I couldn't believe that
we had all come that far
and we had all done it together.
It was just amazing.
>> Look at the Andes.
Look where we are.
It's awesome.
Amazing.
And Daisy's smile is back.
Let's see that smile.
It's back.
[CHATTER]
>> The climb down the trail
was intense and challenging
for the girls.
It was now time to say goodbye
to our Peruvian friends,
as they go back to their village
and we travel back to Cusco.
[TRAIN HORN]
>> OK.
[CHATTER]
>> The Peruvian girls,
the joy that they all had,
that really impacted me a lot.
>> When I created the vision
for the Wellfit Girls Program,
I knew that I wanted
girls to be transformed.
Arms up, arms up.
You can do this, girls.
Reach, reach for the summit.
>> Yeah.
>> When I started this,
I wasn't a fitness girl.
It was hard for me, because
I don't like to run.
And it's too much for me.
>> I was like, I'm going to be
the first one to quit and be
sick and--
not going to make it.
>> Where are you on
a scale of 1 to 10?
>> 10.
>> You're leading the
group again today.
You're rocking it.
I'm so proud of you.
>> I was amazed to see myself
that I didn't get sick.
I was always in the front.
I was like, what is
wrong with me, you know?
I never saw myself like that.
>> Selena and I got
assigned as roommates.
We stayed up all night just
talking about everything.
To see how hardworking she is
and all the things that she's
had to overcome, and being
able to let myself become more
vulnerable and letting her know
the challenges that I faced,
I think it made us really
connected in that way.
I'm not really one to share
a lot of things in my life.
I was surprised to
find how gratifying it
is to have deep
connections with people.
Alexis was having
a really hard time.
I told her that I was going to
stick with her no matter what.
We really helped each
other out, and we
stuck by each other's side.
And I think that was one of
the most important things
on the trip.
>> I was slowing down.
I was tired.
I felt sore.
I mean, everyone was, but I
was suffering in my own way.
I go slow.
I go at my own pace.
Without Riley, I don't know
if I could have finished this.
Without her
encouragement, I wouldn't
have had the good mindset I did
have going down this mountain.
I'm so thankful to
have a friend like her.
>> We're climbing
up the mountain.
And I start feeling
confused, like I
don't know what's going on.
I was really scared
at that point.
So the first person that
I went to was my sister.
And I told her, I don't
think I'm going to make it.
That's what was running
through my head the whole time.
>> I looked up, and I saw
them walking her back.
I just knew right away that she
was having trouble breathing.
I didn't want to show her
that I was scared, because I
was really scared for her.
So I tried to stay calm.
And I just told her that
I knew she could do it,
and that she was strong, and
that she could keep going.
>> Since some family issues
had been going on, and I had no
family for two years, going
on this trip and bonding
and talking--
we got really close.
So I felt like I have
my sister back now.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> So now I know it's possible
to do anything you put
your mind to, and
helping others,
and it doesn't cost much to
put a smile on a kid's face.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> There was this
one little girl.
She was kind of shy, and
it reminded me of me.
So I tried to give her
confidence to talk to me.
It made me feel inspired.
And it also made me feel like I
could open someone up and show
them that there's nothing
to be afraid of to speak
to other people.
>> My favorite part of
the trip was going up,
and seeing the little kids being
happy, and calling us amigos,
and making friends.
>> Since I was the first born
here in the United States,
I want to show my niece and
my nephew that we're able
to graduate from high school.
And we can go to college
and be able to become
doctors, teachers.
That they could go to other
countries or other places
and be able to accomplish
other things, not only
in their careers, but also
personal goals and everything.
>> When I climbed
up Machu Picchu,
when I got to the very top, I
was kind of proud of myself.
Because I thought I wasn't
going to be able to do it.
When I came back to
the United States,
I had proved to myself that
I could accomplish anything
if I just push myself to do it.
>> There you go.
Yes.
>> One of the behavioral
commitments in the Wellfit
Girls Program was trying
something new every day.
And I feel like that
really affected me.
Because I mean, I really have
been trying a lot of new things
and being a lot more open.
I feel like I can
really do anything
that I set my mind to do.
>> For me to achieve that
kind of trek was exceptional
in my book.
I can walk.
I don't know.
And the fact that I couldn't
breathe on top of it,
and to have breast cancer--
that was huge for me,
to be up on the top,
and have a triumphant
moment, and being
able to share that with Jill.
There was, for me, a great
sense of accomplishment.
>> A big takeaway from this
whole experience is being able
to connect and realizing
that we're all human,
and that we all have
things in common.
>> The thing that I
most got out of it,
it was open myself
more to the people,
be more friendly with others and
even get to know myself better.
>> When I was at the
top of the mountain,
I felt so accomplished and
just so hopeful that I can rise
above bullying, or
depression, or anything.
I can still rise above that.
Because I just hiked
150,000 miles up in the air.
>> I knew I had the
ability to be a leader.
But I hadn't really seen
what I was capable of doing.
This experience has helped
me accept that I am a leader.
And it's empowering
to know that.
>> You set an example for
other girls who challenge
themselves--
that they can meet
it, even though they
think that it is not possible,
but it's really possible.
>> A lot of times
it was really hard,
and I felt like giving up.
But I stuck through it.
And I'm so glad that I did.
>> It was one of the
best moments of my life.
And I felt like I could do
anything after that trip.
And I've definitely seen
changes in my life from that.
>> This is our chance to
put our last ribbon on today
and declare how you feel today.
And then we're going to cut
it up, and each one of you
are going to get a piece of it.
So it's not over,
because you'll always
have a piece of this and a
piece of everybody who's taken
a step with you along the way.
They put in the effort.
They took risks.
They challenged themselves.
Everything I would have asked
for, everything I wanted
has been accomplished
by these girls.
[MUSIC - KENK, "I BELIEVE IN
YOU"] I ask you time and time
again.
Sometimes you keep me
waiting, but you come through
in the end.
And I just wanted you to
know, I do appreciate it so.
And I believe in you.
I believe in you.
Yes, I do.
You're always there
for me when I need you.
And when I don't,
you're never far.
And I just wanted to say
thank you for giving me
your guiding star.
And I believe in you.
I believe in you.
Yes, I do.
So one more thing
to say in closing.
I'm glad I opened up this door.
And I just wanted to say
thank you for everything
and so much more, yeah.
And I believe in you.
I believe in you.
Yes, I do.
Oh, yes, I do.